# STATA-FDI-ANALYSIS
In my research assignment, I am interested in how Gross Domestic Product (GDP), among many other control variables, affects inflows of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) that externally pour into a country. Specifically, I used the 33 countries that are considered to be in the region of Latin America, coupled with the 4 largest populated dependencies that are situated in the region, such as Puerto Rico, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and French Guiana; in total that should be 37 countries. However, I also included the United States as I feel that there's a relatively large amount of data on the country and it would greatly aid my data analysis in the case where I lack observational values. Given my 38 countries, I wanted to know how FDI, denominated in USD, changes with an alteration in GDP among many other variables including, but not limited to, life expectancy, schooling, access to electricity within the infrastructure, fluctuations within exchange rates, and degree of inclusive market institutions within a particular country. Conceptually, I would predict that as a nation's economy grows significantly or even if it manages to grow at all, presumably over a series of years and not all of a sudden out from a recessionary state, that foreign investors would be more willing to invest in the country. As some background, GDP is used to examine how large an economy is, and it can roughly be translated as the total national income produced within the borders of a given country. If we assume that supply produces demand, then if a country’s citizens produce more goods, as indicated by a higher monetary value, then they can use that income they get from supplying these goods to demand other goods. In other words, if we assume a given country’s population doesn’t rise faster than the GDP growth rate, we can say that the country’s inhabitants are able to supply and demand more goods and services in the economy than they would before. Overall, using data from the aforementioned 38 countries, I wanted to examine the effect that a large economy has on foreign investors willingness to invest in a given country. 

*	In recent years developing nations are acquiring a lot of attention, seemingly more so than ever before, for the pace that their economies are growing at. Contrary to great pessimism in the western world about future career prospects and purchasing power, as advancements in productivity have not been able to significantly overcome contemporary stagnant wages and all the while jobs are being outsourced overseas for specific sectors of the economy, the youth in developing countries are becoming more optimistic that they will have a higher standard of living than their parents ever did (Pew Global Attitudes Survey, 2014). The standard of living for the global population, in terms of decreasing global violence, warfare lethality, extreme poverty, world hunger rates, infant mortality rates, and booming literacy rates, has never been seen before (Proof that Life is Getting Better for Humanity, in 5 Charts, 2016). Personally, I attribute a lot of this success to growing inclusive market institutions in formerly underdeveloped nations, as they are able to untap the potential in price-coordinated markets unseen by much of the world’s population. Given this contemporary phenomenon, I find foreign investor confidence in these growing markets to be especially interesting. Aside from being initially interested in the region of Latin America, I chose this sum of countries due to their developing status. Given that we’ve seen many of these countries growing in size, it would be interesting to verify how greatly a change in GDP is associated with an increase or decrease in FDI; looking into the future, a growing economy that attracts foreign investment confidence may make future economic growth consistently more sustainable. 
